README.md, before:

# socket.io-prometheus-metrics

Exposes a metrics endpoint for prometheus to collect data about [`socket.io`](https://github.com/socketio/socket.io).

## Installation

```bash
npm install socket.io-prometheus-metrics
# or
yarn add socket.io-prometheus-metrics
```

## Usage

Basic usage

```ts
import * as http from "http";
import * as io from "socket.io";
import * as prom from "socket.io-prometheus-metrics";

const server = http.createServer();
const io = io(server);

prom.collect(io);

server.listen(3000);
```

Metrics is then available at `localhost:9090/metrics`.

Prometheus default metrics can also be enabled by setting the `collectDefaultMetrics` option to `true`

```ts
prom.collect(io, {
  collectDefaultMetrics: true,
});
```

If you wish to serve the metrics yourself the `createServer` options can be set to `false` and metrics can be collected from the register

```ts
const collector = prom.collect(io, {
  createServer: false,
});

const metrics = collector.getMetrics();
```

## Options

| Option                  | Default    | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path`                  | "/metrics" | Metrics path                                                 |
| `port`                  | 9090       | Metrics port                                                 |
| `createServer`          | true       | Auto create http server                                      |
| `collectDefaultMetrics` | false      | Collect prometheus default metrics                           |
| `checkForNewNamespaces` | true       | Collect metrics for namespaces that will be added at runtime |

## Socket.io metrics

> all metrics have `socket_io_` as prefix in their names.

| Name                        | Help                                         | Labels               |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `socket_io_connected`       | Number of currently connected sockets        |                      |
| `socket_io_connects`        | Total count of socket.io connection requests | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_disconnects`     | Total count of socket.io disconnections      | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_errors`          | Total count of socket.io errors              | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_events_received` | Total count of socket.io received events     | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_events_sent`     | Total count of socket.io sent events         | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_bytes_received`  | Total socket.io bytes received               | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_bytes_sent`      | Total socket.io bytes sent                   | `event`, `namespace` |

## Prometheus default metrics

> available if `collectDefaultMetrics` is set to `true`

More information [here](https://github.com/siimon/prom-client#default-metrics) and [here](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/writing_clientlibs/#standard-and-runtime-collectors).

## Namespaces support

Default namespace has label value of `'/'`.

By default library checks `io.nsps` variable for new namespaces to collect metrics from. This check occurs every 2 seconds.

You can disable this functionality by providing `checkForNewNamespaces` option with `false` value.
For example:

```ts
prom.collect(io, {
  checkForNewNamespaces: false,
});
```

With this functionality disabled, library will only collect metrics from namespaces that
were available at the moment of call to `prometheus.metrics(io, ...)`,
default namespace is included.

More information about socket.io namespaces [here](https://socket.io/docs/rooms-and-namespaces).

## License

Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

New: Add `prefix` support to be able to specify a custom Prometheous metric name prefix.

README.md, after:

# socket.io-prometheus-metrics

Exposes a metrics endpoint for prometheus to collect data about [`socket.io`](https://github.com/socketio/socket.io).

## Installation

```bash
npm install socket.io-prometheus-metrics
# or
yarn add socket.io-prometheus-metrics
```

## Usage

Basic usage

```ts
import * as http from "http";
import * as io from "socket.io";
import * as prom from "socket.io-prometheus-metrics";

const server = http.createServer();
const io = io(server);

prom.collect(io);

server.listen(3000);
```

Metrics is then available at `localhost:9090/metrics`.

Prometheus default metrics can also be enabled by setting the `collectDefaultMetrics` option to `true`

```ts
prom.collect(io, {
  collectDefaultMetrics: true,
});
```

If you wish to serve the metrics yourself the `createServer` options can be set to `false` and metrics can be collected from the register

```ts
const collector = prom.collect(io, {
  createServer: false,
});

const metrics = collector.getMetrics();
```

## Options

| Option                  | Default     | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path`                  | "/metrics"  | Metrics path                                                 |
| `port`                  | 9090        | Metrics port                                                 |
| `createServer`          | true        | Auto create http server                                      |
| `collectDefaultMetrics` | false       | Collect prometheus default metrics                           |
| `checkForNewNamespaces` | true        | Collect metrics for namespaces that will be added at runtime |
| `prefix`                | 'socket_io' | Prefix for the property name exported to Prometheus          |

## Socket.io metrics

> all metrics have `socket_io_` as prefix in their names.

| Name                        | Help                                         | Labels               |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `socket_io_connected`       | Number of currently connected sockets        |                      |
| `socket_io_connects`        | Total count of socket.io connection requests | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_disconnects`     | Total count of socket.io disconnections      | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_errors`          | Total count of socket.io errors              | `namespace`          |
| `socket_io_events_received` | Total count of socket.io received events     | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_events_sent`     | Total count of socket.io sent events         | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_bytes_received`  | Total socket.io bytes received               | `event`, `namespace` |
| `socket_io_bytes_sent`      | Total socket.io bytes sent                   | `event`, `namespace` |

## Prometheus default metrics

> available if `collectDefaultMetrics` is set to `true`

More information [here](https://github.com/siimon/prom-client#default-metrics) and [here](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/writing_clientlibs/#standard-and-runtime-collectors).

## Namespaces support

Default namespace has label value of `'/'`.

By default library checks `io.nsps` variable for new namespaces to collect metrics from. This check occurs every 2 seconds.

You can disable this functionality by providing `checkForNewNamespaces` option with `false` value.
For example:

```ts
prom.collect(io, {
  checkForNewNamespaces: false,
});
```

With this functionality disabled, library will only collect metrics from namespaces that
were available at the moment of call to `prometheus.metrics(io, ...)`,
default namespace is included.

More information about socket.io namespaces [here](https://socket.io/docs/rooms-and-namespaces).

## License

Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. See the LICENSE file for details.
